# FAQ

This FAQ is in progress. If there is anything you'd like to see added, please reach out in #ask-devprod-evergreen.

##### What is the difference between cron, batchtime, and periodic build?

The main difference is that cron and batchtime are tied to activating builds for existing commits and periodic builds creates new builds on a schedule regardless of commit activity. For more on their differences and examples, see [controlling when tasks run](Project-Configuration/Controlling-when-tasks-run).

#### Dynamic Github Access Tokens

##### Can more than one app be associated with my project?

No, only one app per project is supported.

##### Why am I seeing `HTTP status code 401: 401 (Unauthorized): requester does not have permission to create a token` error when I try to clone with a generated token?

It is possible that the token is being generated with permissions being fully restricted to `No Permissions` in the project settings. Double check that the [project settings](Github-Integrations#dynamic-github-access-tokens) did not restrict this requester to `No Permissions`.

##### Why am I seeing a `Remote: Repository not found` error when I try to clone with a generated token?

A few things may cause this issue:

- The GitHub app associated with the project does not have permission to clone this repo.
- The token is being generated with _restricted permissions_. Double check that _both_ the project settings and the command, if they specify restricted permissions, include `contents:read`.
- In some cases, you may need to specify the owner and repo using the [github.generate_token command](Project-Configuration/Project-Commands#githubgenerate_token) parameters when generating a token, especially if the repository you want to clone has a different owner than your Evergreen project.

##### Why am I seeing `the intersection of the project setting's requester permissions and provided permissions does not have any permissions to create a token`?

The token restrictions in the project settings and those specified in the command can intersect in a way that results in the token having no restrictions. For example, if the project settings specifies `{ checks: read }` for the requester, a token generated by that requester will have `{ checks: read }` permissions and nothing else. Therefore, if the command specifies `{ actions: read }` for example, `actions:read` will not be added because project settings restricts it to only `checks:read`, and because the command is restricting it to only `actions:read`, the `checks:read` from the project is now also not available, leaving it with no permissions and that error. For more information on this, see [project settings](Github-Integrations#dynamic-github-access-tokens).

##### Why am I seeing `remote: Invalid username or password fatal: Authentication failed for` when I try use a generated token?

It is possible that the GitHub app used to generate the token does not have access to this repository.
Alternatively, the token might have expired. Make sure that the token was not generated more than an hour before use.

##### Why am I seeing `github app auth not found for project` when I try to create a token?

There is likely no app saved for your project. Double check that the app is set up properly by following the instructions [here](Github-Integrations#dynamic-github-access-tokens).

##### Why is github.generate_token failing with `request canceled (Client.Timeout exceeded while awaiting headers)`?

A few things may cause this issue:

- There may be a typo in the owner or repository used when generating the token. Look for the log that says `creating github dynamic access token for 'owner/repo'` and copy/paste it into github to ensure that the owner/repo exist and are spelled correctly.
- Parts of the evergreen system or github may be down.
- There may be something wrong with the github app ID or the github app key saved in [project settings](Github-Integrations#dynamic-github-access-tokens).
